Now let's take a look at implementing inbound and
outbound gateways for ActiveMQ.
Building inbound and outbound gateways for JMS providers is accomplished using
the JmsInboundGateway and the JmsOutboundGateway classes.
Creating a JmsInboundGateway is similar to how we built our JMS
message driven endpoint in the previous video,
We, first,
create a SimpleMessageListenerContainer which manages the connection to
ActiveMQ and subscribes to the specified destination QUEUE_NAME.
Then we create a ChannelPublishingJmsMessageListener which converts
JMS messages into spring integration messages,
but this time we set it's ExpectReply property to true,
which means that we expect the request channel to return a
response that we will send back to our caller.
Finally, we create a .
JmsInboundGateway that uses the container and listener and we
set the request channel to the channel that will handle the
request and return a response.
For the outbound gateway, we create a JmsOutboundGateway and configure it.
We set the ActiveMQ ConnectionFactory,
which spring creates for us when it sees ActiveMQ in the class path.
Then we set the destination queue name and the reply destination queue name.
Finally, we specify the channel to which to send the reply.
The outbound gateway is triggered by a service activator listening
for messages published to the getAddressChannel.
We create a MessagingGateway that our service can use to
publish messages to the getAddressChannel,
but this time we specify that the channel will receive the reply,
namely the getAddressReplyChannel.
For this example, we're going to do the same thing that we did with RabbitMQ,
namely, we're going to request the address of the user in the reservation.
The bar service publishes a reservation to ActiveMQ that was received by the bar
reservation listener through a JMS message driven endpoint.
Now we're going to use a JMS Outbound Gateway to publish a new message
requesting the address to the GetAddress queue that will be received by a
JmsInboundGateway and handled by the address service.
The address service will publish the response back to a reply
queue that will be delivered back to our Bar Reservation
Listener by the JmsOutboundGateway.
Let's take a look at the code and see this in action.
Let's start by looking at the outbound gateway.
The ActiveMQOutboundGateway configuration class creates two channels.
The getAddressChannel is used to trigger the outbound gateway and send
an address requests to ActiveMQ and the getAddressReplyChannel is used
to receive the response from ActiveMQ.
We create a JmsOutboundGateway,
pass it the ActiveMQ connection factory that Spring configures for us when
it finds ActiveMQ in our class path, and then we set the request destination
queue name and the reply destination queue name. Finally, we set the
ReplyChannel to the getAddressReplyChannel.
We create an AddressGateway that publishes messages to the
getAddressChannel which triggers our outbound gateway service activator
and waits for a reply from the getAddressReplyChannel,
which is the channel that the outbound gateway publishes its
responses to, We update the BarReservationListener to autowire in
our gateway, and when we receive a reservation message, we invoke
the address gateway's getAddress method with the reservations user
ID to retrieve the address.
The address is returned as a Json string representation of a bar address so we
use a Jackson objectMapper to deserialize it and log it.
A bar address is a plain old Java object that manages
four fields, the address, city, state, and zipcode.
At this point,
we have published the request to ActiveMQ, now let's review how we handle it.
The ActiveMQInboundGateway configuration class creates
a getAddressInboundGatewayChannel,
which will be used to send requests to an address service.
The JmsInboundGateway is created using both a
SimpleMessageListenerContainer that listens for messages on the
getAddress queue and a ChannelPublishingJmsMessageListener which
converts JMS messages into Spring integration messages.
Note that we set its ExpectReply property to true denoting that we
expect the request channel to return a reply.
The JmsInboundGateway accepts both the SimpleMessageListenerContainer and the
ChannelPublishingJmsMessageListener in its constructor and then we set the
RequestChannel to which we want to send the message.
The address service is a spring service with a ServiceActivator that
listens for messages on the getAddressInboundGatewayChannel.
It receives a message with the user ID as its payload and
then returns a new JSON string representation of a
BarAddress using a Jackson objectMapper.
Let's run the code and review the logs.
As you can see in the logs, the BarReservation service publishes a reservation,
which is received by the bar ReservationListener that then sends a request for
the user's address. The address service receives the message,
returns a bar address that the bar reservation listener then
logs and it does this for all six reservations.
In this section, we reviewed how to integrate ActiveMQ with spring integration.
We saw that the JmsMessageDrivenEndpoint served as an
asynchronous inbound channel adapter that the
JmsSendingMessageHandler served as an outbound channel adapter
that the JmsInboundGateway is used as an inbound gateway, and the JmsOutboundGateway is used as an outbound gateway.